Sonal/codebuilder beta (#4007)
forcedotcom/salesforcedx-vscode: docs/_articles/en/codebuilder/cb-start.md

---
title: Code Builder Quick Start
lang: en
---

## Overview
Complete this Quick Start to become familiar with the Code Builder interface and perform some simple tasks in your Code Builder environment.
## Important Considerations for Code Builder Beta

> We've capped usage for beta at 20 hours for a maximum of 30 days. We highly recommend that you save your work and close the browser tab that is running Code Builder to stop the usage clock when you aren’t using Code Builder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We've capped usage for beta at 20 hours for a maximum of 30 days. We highly recommend that you save your work and close the browser tab that is running Code Builder to stop the usage clock when you aren’t using it.
```

### Don’t Forget to Save Your Work

> Working in the cloud has its advantages. There are some differences though. Unlike working on a desktop where you save your files to a local machine, you must either deploy your changes to your org, or commit them to source control to save your work. Remember to do this before you close the Code Builder tab on your browser so you don’t lose your work.  Throughout the beta, Code Builder environments could be deleted.  All beta environments will be removed before GA.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Working in the cloud has its advantages. However, unlike working on a desktop where you save your files to a local machine, you must either deploy your changes to your org, or commit them to source control to save your work. Save your work before you close the Code Builder tab on your browser so you don’t lose it. 

**Note:** Throughout the beta, Code Builder environments could be deleted.  All beta environments will be removed before GA.
```

## Let’s Get Started
To get started you’ll do the following:

> 1. Create a Code Builder Environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create a Code Builder environment.
```

2. Create a Salesforce DX project.

> 3. Connect to your Org by logging in.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Connect to your org by logging in.
```

> 4. Now you’re ready to use Code Builder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now you’re ready to use Code Builder. (not a step/action, so remove step number)
```

Reviewer: I would actually delete #4/last sentence.

## Connect to Your Dev Environment
1. From the App Launcher, find and open **Code Builder**.

> (If you don't see Code Builder as an option, or you see an empty screen when you launch it, contact your admin to make sure you have the correct license and permission set assigned to you.)

Reviewer: Note instead of parens?

Reviewer: But that's a great note to add. Thinking more about access to the Dev Hub, if they aren't admins - then they need the SFDX perm set (which isn't a formal thing but documented in the Dev Guide). If you have no idea what I'm saying, we can talk in realtime.

> 2. Start setting up your Code Builder environment. Click “Get Started”.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Click **Get Started**.
```

> 3. Click “New Project to create a new Salesforce DX project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Click **New Project** to create a new Salesforce DX project.
```
No quotes, use bold (like uicontrol) for what you actually click.

> 4. Give your project a name and choose “Standard” for project type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Give your project a name and choose **Standard** for project type.
```

> Following steps involve connecting an Org to your Code Builder environment. You can choose to connect to a Salesforce Org (`login.salesforce.com`) or a Sandbox Org (`test.salesforce.com`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, connect an org to your Code Builder environment. You can choose to connect to a Salesforce org (`login.salesforce.com`) or a Sandbox Org (`test.salesforce.com`).
```

I'm not sure if we're supposed to use these generic login domains anymore. I would check with Elaine Rose. It's not completely clear to me.

> 1. Go through the standard Salesforce login rituals and give Code Builder access to your org. Click **Allow**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Log in to your development environment, then click **Allow** to give Code Builder access to your org.
```

> 2. After you’ve successfully connected to your org, click **Next**.

Reviewer: I would combine with step 1.

Log in to your dev environment, click Allow to grant access, then click Next.

3. Choose an alias (nickname) for your org. If you work on many orgs, make sure the nickname helps you identify the org quickly in the future. 

> 4. Your new Code Builder environment is now available on your dashboard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your new Code Builder environment is now available on your dashboard.
```

5. Click **Launch** to launch Code Builder in a new tab. 
6. Now sit back and relax for a few minutes while Code Builder creates and configures your workspace. Code Builder might take a minute (well, currently  x-y minutes) to start up when it initially sets up.

> **Tip**: Once you have created your Code Builder environment, just Launch your Code Builder environment from the dashboard at any time, or bookmark it for fast access.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Tip**: Once you have created your Code Builder environment, launch your Code Builder environment from the dashboard at any time, or bookmark it for fast access.
```

## Let's Take A Quick Tour
You’re now in your developer environment in Code Builder. Code Builder has VS Code’s rich IDE plus it gives you easy access to cool Salesforce development-specific tools through the Salesforce extension pack. Let’s take a quick tour and get to know the lay of the land. Your screen looks something like this:

![code_builder_ui](../../../images/code_builder_ui.jpg)
The Code Builder user interface is divided into five main areas.

> **Activity Bar**: Located on the left-hand side and it contains iconic buttons to switch between different views. For instance, the Explorer view is active in the above picture.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Activity Bar**: Located on the left-hand side, it contains iconic buttons to switch between different views. In our example, the Explorer view is active.
```
Not supposed to use "above" or "below" - at least that's what I was taught. And here's some alternatives in our Style Guide - but I think you can rewrite and skip it as I suggested above. https://confluence.internal.salesforce.com/display/DOCTEAM/below

> **Side Bar**: Contains different views like the Explorer to assist you while working on your project. For example, you can see the Explorer view active in the above image which lists the files in a file structure of your project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Side Bar**: Contains different views to assist you while working on your project. For example, you can see the Explorer view in our example. It lists the files in DX project structure in your project.
```

**Editors**: The main areas to edit your files. You can open as many editors as you like side by side, vertically and horizontally.

> **Panel**: Shows output or debug information, errors and warnings, or an integrated terminal. You can choose the output you want to display.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Panel**: Shows output or debug information, errors and warnings, or an integrated terminal. You can choose the output to display.
```

> **Status Bar**: Shows information about the opened project and the files you’re editing. This is where you can also see the org you’re working against. 

Reviewer: Not supposed to use "This" standalone without a noun - because it's difficult to translate. 

So alt for second sentence: The Status Bar displays the org that you're connected to.

## Get To Know Your Org – Use the Org Browser

> Take a closer look at the activity bar and notice a cloud icon. This is the Org Browser. It’s a part of the Salesforce Extension Pack. It helps you browse and retrieve metadata from your org without having to use a manifest file. The Org Browser is available only in non source-tracked orgs such as sandboxes or developer edition orgs. You can retrieve the metadata source into your local project. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Take a closer look at the activity bar and notice a cloud icon. This icon represents the Org Browser. It’s a part of the Salesforce Extension pack. It helps you browse and retrieve metadata from your org without having to use a manifest file. The Org Browser is available only in non source-tracked orgs such as sandboxes or Developer Edition orgs. You can retrieve the metadata source into your local project. 
```

Reviewer: Do we use Salesforce Extension Pack as the official product name? Not really sure how we should be capitalizing it because I always thought the capitalizable product name is Salesforce Extensions for VS Code. Happy to discuss in realtime.

**More Information**: You can find more information about the [Org Browser](https://developer.salesforce.com/tools/vscode/en/user-guide/org-browser) in the Salesforce Extension Pack documentation.

![org_browser_small](../../../images/org_browser_small.jpg)

Click Org Browser and scroll down to **Custom Objects**. The first object you see is Account. You can view the metadata of the **Account** object (and do a few more cool things, but we’ll get to those in a bit). 

## Use SOQL Builder to Build and Run your First Query

> Code Builder comes preloaded with everything you need, to build and run a SOQL query as a part of the Salesforce extension pack. 

Reviewer: Here SF extension pack is l/c. I don't believe you want a comma between need and to.

> Code Builder comes preloaded with everything you need, to build and run a SOQL query as a part of the Salesforce extension pack. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Code Builder comes preloaded with everything you need to build and run a SOQL query. 
```

Let’s build and run a simple SOQL query on the Account object:

> 1. Press Ctrl+Shift+P (⇧⌘P)  to view the command palette.

Reviewer: It is "press" all over? I wonder if that's the convention if you're holding down multiple keys. I guess press is okay in this context. I'm going to delete my other comments. I thought Press wasn't okay.

Reviewer: I think Press is acceptable for keys, but you should use select for menu items.

> 2. Type “SOQL” in the search box and then select the **SFDX: Create Query in SOQL Builder** command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Type “SOQL” in the search box and then select **SFDX: Create Query in SOQL Builder**.
```

3. Select  the following:

    a. **Account** Object in **From** field.

    b. **BillingState** and **NumberofEmployees** in **Fields**.

>     c. Press **Run Query** to run this simple SOQL Query on your org.

Reviewer: I think in this case you want to say "Select **Menu item**.

> 4. You’re prompted to save your changes if you close the untitled file. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You’re prompted to save your changes if you close the untitled file. 
```

5. Save the changes to a file using a “.soql” extension.
6. Let’s rerun the saved query – Right click the file and select **Open With…** then select SOQL Builder.
The file opens in SOQL Builder and you can rerun or edit the query as you wish.

**More Information**: For more information about building complex queries and much more see the  [SOQL Builder](https://developer.salesforce.com/tools/vscode/en/soql/soql-builder) in the Salesforce Extensions for Visual Studio Code documentation.

## Connect to a Different Org

> During the course of development, you'll use different types of orgs for different stages. For example, it's common to use a Developer sandbox or Development Edition org during the development phase, and move to other sandbox types for integration, testing, and staging. Eventually, you'll deploy your changes to a production org. You can connect Code Builder to any of these orgs to deploy or retrieve metadata.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During the course of development, you'll use different types of orgs for different stages in your release cycle. For example, it's common to use a Developer sandbox or Development Edition org during the development phase, and move to other sandbox types for integration, testing, and staging. Eventually, you'll deploy your changes to a production org. You can connect Code Builder to any of these orgs to deploy or retrieve metadata.
```

To log into an org:

> 1. From the command palette run **SFDX: Authorize an Org**.

Reviewer: Can you look in VS Code docs to see if Command Palette is capitalized? I'm pretty sure I looked it up at one point and it was. But whatever it is, let's be consistent across all PDT topics.

> 2. Select either sandbox for the login URL (`test.salesforce.com`) or a developer org if you have access to one.

Reviewer: Another Elaine Rose ping re: test.salesforce.com

3. Enter an alias for the org, for example, dev_pro_sandbox or my_playground.
4. Log in with the relevant username and password.

> 5. You’re now connected to your org, and its name is visible in the status bar at the bottom.

Reviewer: I don't tend to put explanatory info in a step. I reserve them for an ACTION. You can indent the text with some spaces and continue numbering. Not sure if it's automatic or not at that point.

> 6. Once you authorize an org, we create a connected app that takes care of future authorizations so you don't have to continually log in. Just click the org’s name and then choose the previous org from the list.	

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Once you authorize an org, we create a connected app that takes care of future authorizations so you don't have to continually log in. Just click the org’s name and then choose the org from the list.	
```

## Create, Retrieve, and Deploy a Custom Field
Let’s add a custom field to an object in our org and pull its metadata into our Code Builder project.

> First let’s add a custom field  – 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First let’s add a custom field.
```

> 1. From **Setup**, go to **Object Manager | Account**.

Reviewer: This doesn't follow our standard for setup, although it doesn't offend me. You follow the standard "above" - whoops, I used a bad word. Heh.

2. Click **Fields & Relationships**.
3. Click **New**.
4. For data type, select **Date**, then click **Next**.
5. Fill out the following:
     * Field Label: Created On
     * Field Name: createdon
     * Description: Date of Account Creation
6. Click **Next** until you save the field.

> Now let’s retrieve metadata for this new field –

Reviewer: Looks like you may be using the dashes on purpose. I'll just leave it

> 1. Return to Code Builder and click the Org Browser

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Return to Code Builder and open Org Browser.
```

> 2. Scroll down to **Custom Objects** and navigate to **Account**

Reviewer: None of these steps have ending punctuation. If you want it, add it. Seems like they should to be consistent.

3. Click the retrieve icon next to the Account component to run **SFDX: Retrieve Source from Org**
4. From the Activity Bar, click the Explorer and navigate to `force-app/main/default/object/Account`

> Lo and behold, in the fields folder, a file named `createdon_c.field-meta.xml` contains metadata for your new custom field! 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Lo and behold, in the `fields` folder, a file named `createdon_c.field-meta.xml` contains metadata for your new custom field! 
```

The metadata is here for your reference:
```
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<CustomField xmlns="http://soap.sforce.com/2006/04/metadata">
   <fullName>createdon__c</fullName>
   <description>Date of Account Creation</description>
   <externalId>false</externalId>
   <label>Created On</label>
   <required>false</required>
   <trackFeedHistory>false</trackFeedHistory>
   <type>Date</type>
</CustomField>
```
We’ll now make a simple edit to this field and deploy our changes back to our org with a single click.

> 1. Edit `createdon_c.field-meta.xm`l and change the `<required>` tag value to `true` to indicate that you want this custom field to be a required field. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Edit `createdon_c.field-meta.xml` and change the `<required>` tag value to `true` to indicate that this custom field is required. 
```

2. Right click the `objects/Account` folder and click **SFDX: Deploy Source to Org** 
3. After the command has successfully run, go back to your org and check details of the **Created On** custom field and confirm that it’s now a required field. 

## Create and Deploy a New Lightning Web Component
For another exercise in deploying, let’s learn how to quickly create a simple Lightning Web Component in our Code Builder project. We’ll then deploy this component to our org using a single command. Here we go:

Let’s create a Lightning Web Component – 

> 1. Press Ctrl+Shift+P (⇧⌘P) run **SFDX: Create Lightning Web Component** to create a New Lightning Web Component. 

Reviewer: I think we "click" or "select"; we don't Press. If I missed that elsewhere, sorry.

2. Give the component a name, say, `newCBComponent`.
3. Press Enter to accept the default file location (`force-app/main/default/lwc`).
4. Press Enter.

Three new files are created in the `force-app/main/default/lwc/newCBComponent` folder.

Update the files –

> 1. In the HTML file, `newCBComponent.html`, copy, and paste the following code:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the HTML file, `newCBComponent.html`, copy and paste the following code:
```

```
<template>
    <p>Hello, {greeting}!</p>
    <lightning-input label="Name" value={greeting} onchange={handleChange}></lightning-input>
</template>
```
2. In the HTML file, `newCBComponent.js`, copy, and paste the following code:

```
import { LightningElement } from 'lwc';

export default class NewCBComponent extends LightningElement {
   greeting = 'Great going learning Code Builder!';
   changeHandler(event) {
       this.greeting = event.target.value;
   }
}
```

> 3. In the HTML file, `newCBComponent.js-meta.xml`, copy, and paste the following code:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. In the HTML file, `newCBComponent.js-meta.xml`, copy and paste the following code:
```

```
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<LightningComponentBundle xmlns="http://soap.sforce.com/2006/04/metadata">
   <apiVersion>54.0</apiVersion>
   <isExposed>true</isExposed>
   <targets>
   <target>lightning__AppPage</target>
   <target>lightning__RecordPage</target>
   <target>lightning__HomePage</target>
 </targets>
</LightningComponentBundle>
```
4. Save all the files.

Let’s deploy this new component to our org – 

1. Right-click the `force-app/main/default/lwc/newCBComponent` folder and click **SFDX: Deploy Source to Org** 

> Your output window and shows this message:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your output window shows this message:
```

```

=== Deployed Source
STATE    FULL NAME       TYPE                      PROJECT PATH                                                       
───────  ──────────────  ────────────────────────  ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Created  newCBComponent  LightningComponentBundle  force-app/main/default/lwc/newCBComponent/newCBComponent.html      
Created  newCBComponent  LightningComponentBundle  force-app/main/default/lwc/newCBComponent/newCBComponent.js        
Created  newCBComponent  LightningComponentBundle  force-app/main/default/lwc/newCBComponent/newCBComponent.js-meta.xml

10:22:27.340 ended SFDX: Deploy Source to Org

```
2. Select **SFDX: Open Default Org** to log into your org.

> 3. Navigate to **Setup:Lightning Components** to confirm that a new lightning component named `newCBComponent` is now available in your org. 

Reviewer: Lightning Web Component? I can't remember the rules for when upper or lower case. :(

---
title: Code Builder Quick Start
lang: en
---

## Overview
Complete this Quick Start to become familiar with the Code Builder interface and perform some simple tasks in your Code Builder environment.

> ## Important Considerations for Code Builder Beta

Reviewer: Consider cross reffing or say - before you begin, make sure you understand the beta limitations documented HERE

We've capped usage for beta at 20 hours for a maximum of 30 days. We highly recommend that you save your work and close the browser tab that is running Code Builder to stop the usage clock when you aren’t using it.

### Don’t Forget to Save Your Work
Working in the cloud has its advantages. However, unlike working on a desktop where you save your files to a local machine, you must either deploy your changes to your org, or commit them to source control to save your work. Save your work before you close the Code Builder tab on your browser so you don’t lose it. 

**Note:** Throughout the beta, Code Builder environments could be deleted.  All beta environments will be removed before GA.

## Let’s Get Started
To get started you’ll do the following:
1. Create a Code Builder environment.
2. Create a Salesforce DX project.
3. Connect to your org by logging in.
Now you’re ready to use Code Builder.

## Connect to Your Dev Environment
1. From the App Launcher, find and open **Code Builder**.

**Note:** If you don't see Code Builder as an option, or you see an empty screen when you launch it, contact your admin to make sure you have the correct license and permission set assigned to you.

> 2. Click **Get Started**.

Reviewer: In the preview, the numbering is restarting at 1 here.

3. Click **New Project** to create a new Salesforce DX project.
4. Give your project a name and choose **Standard** for project type.

Next, connect an org to your Code Builder environment. You can choose to connect to a Salesforce org or a sandbox org.

1. Log in to your development environment, click **Allow** to grant access, then click **Next**.
2. Choose an alias (nickname) for your org. If you work on many orgs, make sure the nickname helps you identify the org quickly in the future. 
Your new Code Builder environment is now available on your dashboard.
3. Click **Launch** to launch Code Builder in a new tab. 
4. Now sit back and relax for a few minutes while Code Builder creates and configures your workspace. Code Builder might take a fews minutes to start up when it initially sets up.

**Tip**: Once you have created your Code Builder environment, launch it from the dashboard at any time, or bookmark it for fast access.

## Let's Take A Quick Tour

> You’re now in your developer environment in Code Builder. Code Builder has VS Code’s rich IDE plus it gives you easy access to cool Salesforce development-specific tools through the Salesforce extension pack. Let’s take a quick tour and get to know the lay of the land. Your screen looks something like this:

Reviewer: I was told many years ago that using a possessive in a product name can nullify the trademark. So just thinking about VS Code here and how you could rewrite to avoid the possessive.

Reviewer: Although with the rich IDE provided by VS Code, Code Builder gives you easy access to...

![code_builder_ui](../../../images/code_builder_ui.jpg)
The Code Builder user interface is divided into five main areas.

**Activity Bar**: Located on the left-hand side, it contains iconic buttons to switch between different views. In our example, the Explorer view is active.

**Side Bar**: Contains different views to assist you while working on your project. For example, you can see the Explorer view in our example. It lists the files in DX project structure in your project.

**Editors**: The main areas to edit your files. You can open as many editors as you like side by side, vertically and horizontally.

**Panel**: Shows output or debug information, errors and warnings, or an integrated terminal. You can choose the output to display.

**Status Bar**: Shows information about the opened project and the files you’re editing. The Status Bar displays the org that you're connected to. 

## Get To Know Your Org – Use the Org Browser

> Take a closer look at the activity bar and notice a cloud icon. This icon represents the Org Browser. It’s a part of the Salesforce Extension pack. It helps you browse and retrieve metadata from your org without having to use a manifest file. The Org Browser is available only in non source-tracked orgs such as sandboxes or Developer Edition orgs. User Org Browser to retrieve the metadata source into your local project. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Take a closer look at the activity bar and notice a cloud icon. This icon represents the Org Browser. It’s a part of the Salesforce Extension pack. It helps you browse and retrieve metadata from your org without having to use a manifest file. The Org Browser is available only in non source-tracked sandboxes or Developer Edition orgs. User Org Browser to retrieve the metadata source into your local project. 
```

Reviewer: Suggesting a small tweak because you can enable source tracking in sandboxes and it's required for DevOps Center. But I feel like this wording could be misconstrued that all sandboxes don't have source tracking.

You’re prompted to save your changes if you close the untitled file. 
5. Save the changes to a file using a “.soql” extension.
6. Let’s rerun the saved query – Right click the file and select **Open With…** then select SOQL Builder.
The file opens in SOQL Builder and you can rerun or edit the query as you wish.

**More Information**: For more information on building complex queries see the [SOQL Builder](https://developer.salesforce.com/tools/vscode/en/soql/soql-builder) in the Salesforce Extensions for Visual Studio Code documentation.

## Connect to a Different Org
During the course of development, you'll use different types of orgs for different stages. For example, it's common to use a Developer sandbox or Development Edition org during the development phase, and move to other sandbox types for integration, testing, and staging. Eventually, you'll deploy your changes to a production org. You can connect Code Builder to any of these orgs to deploy or retrieve metadata.

To log into another org:

1. Click the org picker(which show the alias for the current org) in the status bar, to  bring  up the command palette.

> 2. From the Command Palette run **SFDX: Authorize an Org**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Run **SFDX: Authorize an Org**.
```

3. Enter the login URL or select the org you want to log into.

> 4. Enter an alias for the org, for example, dev_pro_sandbox or my_playground.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Enter an alias for the org, for example, dev_pro_sandbox or my_playground. A code is displayed in a text box. 
```

> 5. A code is displayed in a text box. click **Connect**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Click **Connect**.
```

6. Log in with the relevant username and password. Click **Allow**. 
7. Click **Continue**. You’re now connected to a different org, and its name is visible in the status bar at the bottom.

> Once you authorize an org, we take care of future authorizations so you don't have to continually log in. Just click the org’s name and then choose the org from the list.	

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you authorize an org, we take care of future authorizations so you don't have to continually log in. Just click the org’s name and then choose the org from the list.	
```

Reviewer: Our style guide says to use "after" vs. "once" - which I totally have to self-edit for.

## Create, Retrieve, and Deploy a Custom Field
Let’s add a custom field to an object in our org and pull its metadata into our Code Builder project.

> First let’s add a custom field  – 

Reviewer: This kinda looks a bit odd in preview. Maybe just a normal sentence that ends in a period and is part of the short desc

1. From **Setup**, go to **Object Manager** | **Account**.
2. Click **Fields & Relationships**.
3. Click **New**.
4. For data type, select **Date**, then click **Next**.
5. Fill out the following:
     * Field Label: Created On
     * Field Name: createdon
     * Description: Date of Account Creation
6. Click **Next** until you save the field.

> Now let’s retrieve metadata for this new field –

Reviewer: Same here. Use a period to end?

1. Return to Code Builder and open Org Browser.
2. Scroll down to **Custom Objects** and navigate to **Account**.
3. Click the retrieve icon next to the Account component to run **SFDX: Retrieve Source from Org**.

> 4. From the Activity Bar, click the Explorer and navigate to `force-app/main/default/object/Account`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. From the Activity Bar, click the Explorer and navigate to `force-app/main/default/object/Account`.
```

> Lo and behold, in the `fields` folder, a file named `createdon_c.field-meta.xml` contains metadata for your new custom field! 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Lo and behold, in the `fields` folder, a file named `createdon_c.field-meta.xml` contains metadata for your new custom field! 
```

Reviewer: Trying to see if that puts "Lo and behold" on its own line.

The metadata is here for your reference:
```
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<CustomField xmlns="http://soap.sforce.com/2006/04/metadata">
   <fullName>createdon__c</fullName>
   <description>Date of Account Creation</description>
   <externalId>false</externalId>
   <label>Created On</label>
   <required>false</required>
   <trackFeedHistory>false</trackFeedHistory>
   <type>Date</type>
</CustomField>
```
We’ll now make a simple edit to this field and deploy our changes back to our org with a single click.

1. Edit `createdon_c.field-meta.xml` and change the `<required>` tag value to `true` to indicate that this custom field is required. 
2. Right click the `objects/Account` folder and click **SFDX: Deploy Source to Org**. 
3. After the command has successfully run, go back to your org and check details of the **Created On** custom field and confirm that it’s now a required field. 

## Create and Deploy a New Lightning Web Component
For another exercise in deploying, let’s learn how to quickly create a simple Lightning Web Component in our Code Builder project. We’ll then deploy this component to our org using a single command. Here we go:

> Let’s create a Lightning Web Component – 

Reviewer: Whatever you decide above, fix in this section.

Author: I checked how it looks in VS Code preview. I think the  issue is with netlify.

1. Press Ctrl+Shift+P (⇧⌘P) run **SFDX: Create Lightning Web Component** to create a New Lightning Web Component. 
2. Give the component a name, say, `newCBComponent`.
3. Press **Enter** to accept the default file location (`force-app/main/default/lwc`).
4. Press **Enter**.

Three new files are created in the `force-app/main/default/lwc/newCBComponent` folder.

Update the files –

> 1. In the HTML file, `newCBComponent.html`, copy and paste the following code:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In `newCBComponent.html`, copy and paste the following code:
```

```
<template>
    <p>Hello, {greeting}!</p>
    <lightning-input label="Name" value={greeting} onchange={handleChange}></lightning-input>
</template>
```

> 2. In the HTML file, `newCBComponent.js`, copy, and paste the following code:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. In `newCBComponent.js`, copy, and paste the following code:
```

> 2. In the HTML file, `newCBComponent.js`, copy, and paste the following code:

Reviewer: Numbering in preview in off. Take a look. I wonder if using all "1."s for numbered steps would fix it.

> 2. In the HTML file, `newCBComponent.js`, copy, and paste the following code:

Reviewer: step numbering is off in preview. Not sure how to fix it.

```
import { LightningElement } from 'lwc';

export default class NewCBComponent extends LightningElement {
   greeting = 'Great going learning Code Builder!';
   changeHandler(event) {
       this.greeting = event.target.value;
   }
}
```

> 3. In the HTML file, `newCBComponent.js-meta.xml`, copy and paste the following code:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. In `newCBComponent.js-meta.xml`, copy and paste the following code:
```

```
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<LightningComponentBundle xmlns="http://soap.sforce.com/2006/04/metadata">
   <apiVersion>54.0</apiVersion>
   <isExposed>true</isExposed>
   <targets>
   <target>lightning__AppPage</target>
   <target>lightning__RecordPage</target>
   <target>lightning__HomePage</target>
 </targets>
</LightningComponentBundle>
```
4. Save all the files.

Let’s deploy this new component to our org – 

1. Right-click the `force-app/main/default/lwc/newCBComponent` folder and click **SFDX: Deploy Source to Org** 

Your output window shows this message:

```

> === Deployed Source

Reviewer: This doesn't look right in preview either but could be fine in real output. (It's wrapping)

Author: I think this is also an issue with netlify. I checked how it looks in VS Code preview.

STATE    FULL NAME       TYPE                      PROJECT PATH                                                       
───────  ──────────────  ────────────────────────  ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Created  newCBComponent  LightningComponentBundle  force-app/main/default/lwc/newCBComponent/newCBComponent.html      
Created  newCBComponent  LightningComponentBundle  force-app/main/default/lwc/newCBComponent/newCBComponent.js        
Created  newCBComponent  LightningComponentBundle  force-app/main/default/lwc/newCBComponent/newCBComponent.js-meta.xml

10:22:27.340 ended SFDX: Deploy Source to Org

```
2. Select **SFDX: Open Default Org** to log into your org.
3. Navigate to **Setup:Lightning Components** to confirm that a new Lightning Web Component named `newCBComponent` is now available in your org. 

Congratulations on successfully creating and deploying a new Lightning Web Component.

## To Learn More
You can take your time and use these resources to learn more about what you can do in Code Builder:

> * [Visual Studio Code User Interface](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/getstarted/userinterface) to get to know the Visual Studio code user interface 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Visual Studio Code User Interface](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/getstarted/userinterface) to get to know the Visual Studio code user interface.
```
